# Running Local OpenClaw and NemoClaw 

- **OpenClaw**: The frontend CLI interface that communicates with NemoClaw
- **NemoClaw**: With OpenShell, all processing happens locally in a sandboxed environment, providing enhanced security and privacy with no data sent to external servers.
- OpenClaw sends commands to NemoClaw and receives responses to display to the user
- Together they form a complete local AI workflow system with data control and security maintained on your machine


## 提前準備

### 1. 筆電，準備新安裝WSL2（若是已經在使用，要注意權限）

You may need to install nvidia-container-toolkit.

In WSL.
```bash
curl -fsSL https://www.nvidia.com/nemoclaw.sh | bash
```

### 2. 新的email帳號 (optional but suggested)

### 3. 用新帳號註冊slack, 取得 app and bot tokens

建議不要
- 不給GitHub 權限 or on your own risk
- 不給cloud LLM or on your own risk and budget
- 不給ssh key

### 4. 根據筆電算力選擇ollama模型

Install Ollama. Follow official site: 
https://ollama.com/download/linux

We suggest gemma4:e4b on RTX 4070 level laptop, pull a model
```bash
ollama pull gemma4:e4b
```

| Machine Type | RAM | VRAM | GPU | Recommended Model | Parameters |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Laptop (argtop06) | 32GB | 12GB | Nvidia RTX4070 | gemma4:e4b | 8B |
| Laptop (argtopXX) | XXGB |24GB | GTX 4060 | XXX | 13B - 34B |
| Mac Mini (M4) | Unified 16G | Unified 16G | N/A | gemma4:e4b | 8B |
| Macbook Pro | Unified 64GB+ | Unified 64GB+ | N/A | XXX | 34B - 70B |

See the detail for the model

```bash
ollama show gemma4:e4b
```

The capabilities for:
* tools (Must in NemoClaw)
* vision (Ideal to interact with GUI)

Quantization Q4_K_M
- Common in ollama
- 用 4-bit 壓縮模型權重
- 大幅降低 VRAM / RAM 使用量
- 推論速度通常更快
- 精度比 full precision 稍低

Check the ollama is accessible

```bash
 curl http://127.0.0.1:11434/api/tags
```

Check the OpenShell Docker Sandbox can access ollama

```bash
docker run --rm \
  --add-host=host.openshell.internal:host-gateway \
  curlimages/curl \
  http://host.openshell.internal:11434/api/tags
```

We also need to set the container to access ollama
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /etc/systemd/system/ollama.service.d
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/ollama.service.d/override.conf
```

Add 
```ini
[Service]
Environment="OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0:11434"
```

Also check
```bash
ss -tulnp | grep 11434
```

You should be able to see the ollama api working in docker.

### 5. Onboard

As described in the installation instruction:
```bash
nemoclaw onboard --no-gpu
```

Note:
- WSL has a different path to see nvidia-smi (add export PATH=/usr/lib/wsl/lib:$PATH to ~/.bashrc). However, this is a bit complicated for the nemoclaw onboard process.
- OpenShell GPU Passthrough: No need to use this (so we add --no-gpu); GPU 已經在 host 上用了。sandbox 不一定需要 GPU; Ollama 已經吃 GPU.
- 什麼情況 sandbox 才需要 GPU, 當 sandbox 裡面直接： torch.cuda, local inference, CUDA apps, Whisper GPU,and TensorRT.

### 6. 設定VPN




Check for 

## How to Run

```bash
nemoclaw list
nemoclaw my-assistant connect
```

### Send message

Test if you can send a message in Slack
```bash
openclaw message send -t channel:#general -m "Hello from OpenClaw"
```

### TUI

Make sure you start with TUI. This may take a while first time to load things to memory

```bash
openclaw tui
```

Check the CPU/GPU used in a separated terminal
```bash
ollama ps
```

- You may see 55%/45% CPU/GPU for gemma4:e4b model.
- XXX

### Use an existing skill

List available skills
```
-------------------------------
list available skills
-------------------------------

-------------------------------
Can I use the weather skill to know Taipei weather for today?
-------------------------------
```

### Create a new skill and call it in TUI

